




Important:
https://stoneworksmc.fandom.com/wiki/Stoneworks_MC_Wiki 
Check #faq for frequently asked questions in the main Discord
Stoneworks Server Owners:
Deflate, Raúl, Stoney

Punishment Colour Coding
All rules have a number next to them. For the rules that carry a punishment, the number is colour coded to indicate the severity of the punishment. The corresponding punishments for each colour are shown below.
Chat related
Chat mutes/Warnings
	(The length of the mutes can increase on repeat offences)
Minor: 
1st Offence: Warning 
2nd Offence: Days long ban 
3rd Offence: Weeks long ban 
4th Offence: Permanent ban
Moderate: 
1st Offence: Warning or ban
2nd Offence: Weeks long ban
3rd Offence: Months long ban
4th Offence: Permanent ban 
(Can immediately result in a ban without a warning if serious enough)
Severe: 
1st offence: Weeks long ban
2nd Offence: Months long ban
3rd Offence: Permanent ban 
(Can be immediately Permanent if severe enough)
Grievous: 
1st offence: Permanent Ban.

Basic Rules
This is a short list of the basic rules of the server. The full, thorough rules are to be found below.
No bigotry or harassment based on identity or inherent characteristics is tolerated.
No hacking, glitching, or use of exploits and/or macros is allowed.
Attempting to make the server unplayable for others through lag, war, or harassment is not allowed.
Spamming on any core Stoneworks chats (in-game, hub chat, Discord general, etc.) is not allowed. 
Griefing is not allowed.
Nudes, porn, or sex-related play is not allowed.
Prolonged toxicity or bullying is not allowed.
Look through the war rules before going to war. 
Admins hold the last say regarding punishments, balancing the game, and anything else that concerns the server.
For ease of moderation, we only allow English to be used in Stoneworks public chats. Local chats are not included.
Basic Server Goals
Encouragement of creativity in building, worldbuilding, and character creation
Creation of societies that interact with each other in interesting ways
Building of cities, towns, temples, and more
Creating a dynamic history, lore, and mythos
Creating maps, art, and community projects
Developing character and social roleplay in a way that influences your gameplay and interactions
Developing an environment where players of many different playstyles can coexist and interact in interesting ways

Table of contents


About the rules and punishments
1. General moderation
2. In-game moderation
3. Roleplaying licensing
4. Shop-related info
4.1. Custom brew recipe changes
4.2. Custom prefix limits
4.3. Shop refund policy
5. Retroactive application of rules
In-game rules
6. In-game player interaction rules
6.1. General PVP Rules
6.2. Roleplaying rules
7. Plugin-related rules
7.1. Land rules
7.2 Proxy Claiming Rules
7.3. Scamming rules
7.3. Naming of an item/land
8. Griefing & structure rules
8.1. Griefing
8.2. Factions Tactics
8.3. Inappropriate build rules
8.4. Farm & Redstone machines rules
9. Theft rules
10. War rules
11. Hacks and Exploits
11.1. General hacking & exploits
11.2. TP trapping rules
11.3. AFK kick evasion
12. Skin/name rules
12.1. Inappropriate Skin & Profile Picture rules
12.2. Inappropriate profile/account rules
General rules
13. Toxicity rules
13.1 General toxicity rules
13.2. Bigotry rules
13.3. Edginess & Political discussions rules
14. Sexual interaction rules
14.1. Sexual harassment
14.2. Sexual Roleplay & Interactions
15. Staff-related rules
15.1. In-game reimbursement policy
15.2. Staff abuse rules
15.3. Impersonation of staff members
16. Discord-related rules
16.1. Advertising
16.2. Policy on Recording Voice Calls
17. Miscellaneous rules
17.1. Sharing personal information
17.2. Illegal behaviour
17.3. Lying during an investigation
17.4 Minecraft & Discord ToS
























Rules & Policies

1. General moderation
	1.1. At Stoneworks, we reserve the full right to limit the access to our servers, be it on Discord or on Minecraft. Rule violations that occur on Discord Servers related to ours, and in the Direct Messages or Group Chats of players whose relationship is primarily focused around Stoneworks and its happenings, will also be moderated.
1.2. Punishments for offences taking place on affiliated Discords may also befall the administration of the Discord in question, if sufficient evidence points to it having a culture of encouraging or overlooking toxicity and/or rules violations.
1.3. The use of personal beliefs in order to justify bigotry, or the breaking of any of the rules in this document, is not accepted as a valid excuse.
1.4. Using an alt on Discord or In-Game in order to circumvent/evade a punishment of any kind is disallowed.
1.4.1 Knowingly aiding a player in evading a ban is disallowed
1.4.2 Knowingly working for a ban-evading or banned nation leader (following political schemes, planning battles with them, orchestrating diplomatic talks under them, or gathering large amounts of materials for them) is disallowed. This will only be enforced with clear, direct evidence of Individual(s) A working directly with Banned Individual(s) B for high profile and prolonged cases, where the nation leader is banned for more than one month.
1.5. Spamming or posting unnecessary walls of text in any core Stoneworks chat, be it in-game or on Discord, is disallowed.
1.6. DMing someone with the purpose of advertising unrelated servers, products, or scam links is not allowed and will result in a ban.
1.7. Advertising other servers in any Stoneworks-related Discord or in-game is not allowed.
1.8. Channels for announcements (character or national) and channels for advertising your market, religion, or nation have special rules which are pinned on the Discord, in the respective channels. Failing to follow these rules will result in a punishment.
1.9. For ease of moderation, we only allow English to be used in Stoneworks public chats. Local chats are not included.



1.10. Banned/Muted players can only appeal for themselves via the means provided by the server, tickets/inquiries opened by different players about appealing these cases will be dismissed.
2. In-game and Discord Moderation Policies
2.1. Any infraction committed in the Stoneworks servers will be punished by staff accordingly. Staff may accord lowered punishments for bans based on misinformation given by individual staff members. All rules apply to all Minecraft servers of Stoneworks (as of now, but not limited to, Rathnir, Eldham, Tremons, Hub, Practice).

2.2. Admins reserve the right to confiscate large amounts of items or money generated or obtained through methods that break the StoneWorks rules, such as glitches, illegal farms and theft.
3. Roleplaying licensing
3.1. Nothing created within the context of roleplay and politics on the Stoneworks Minecraft server or its affiliated fandom wiki is subject to copyright or licensing, within the bounds that the server and Stoneworks IP are owned by Jack from Stoneworks and Raúl respectively.
4. Shop-related info
4.1. Perk transfer
4.1.1. Perks may be transferred ONCE and ONLY within 30 days of the initial purchase date. Make a ticket in the Stoneworks Discord to request this.
4.1. Custom brew recipe changes
4.1.1. Recipes may not be changed, unless the recipe has been clearly and evidentially stolen through an illegal exploit. Recipe change requests will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
4.2. Custom prefix limits
	4.2.1. You can only change your custom prefix every 30 days. Permissions for who can have access to your custom prefix can be changed once every 30 days. The Stoneworks Admin team reserves the right to deny the creation of any custom prefix, and request that the owner creates a different one.
4.3. Shop refund policy
	4.3.1. All purchases done through the Stoneworks store can be refunded within the first 2 weeks after the purchase. 
5. Application of Rules & Moderation Limits
5.1. Unless the offence has obvious social and/or legal ramifications, or the rules specifically states retroactive coverage, rules will not be retroactively applied to incidents they cover. 
5.2. Players who were the victims and reporters of a rulebreak may lobby to have the ban reduced by the staff. If this is the case, staff may unban, reduce the ban time down to half its total, or down to two months total in the case of a permanent ban. This is based on the staff member’s sole discretion regarding the player, their offence, and previous offences. This also does not apply to bans for sexual harassment, doxxing, hacking, intense bigotry, blacklisted offences, or other extreme rule violations.

5.3. Staff also moderates all affiliated discords with Stoneworks. An affiliated discord is one which clearly meets 2 of the following criteria, without meeting either of the negative criteria:
-Being named after a group that was started or is mainly in SW
-If the discord is advertised in the main server discord, particularly among nations, guilds, mercenary groups, character, religions, etc.
-Having channels named for SW, SW groups, SW nations, or created for the usage of gameplay functions (like national announcements, maps, etc)
-Has roles, tiers, and ownership that reflects SW or a group in SW (ie, leader of an in game nation is the owner or top rank in discord, names of roles are the same as in game nations, etc)
-Links to the SW rulebook 
-Has frequent announcements for events in game (wars, rituals, etc) 
-Has emojis referencing SW

WITHOUT having either of these two criteria:
-Primarily made, moderated, and owned by people who do not currently or previously play on SW.
*NOTE that is is NOT enough to simply claim it’s “not Stoneworks affiliated” etc.



	5.3.1 If a discord is affiliated by the above guidelines, but it is an edgecase and is arguably / very lightly affiliated, then staff can lower bantimes for rule violations in this discord at their own discretion.

	5.4. Staff will also monitor any conversations in Discord Direct Messages or Group Chats among Stoneworks players, as lots of toxicity and rulebreaks of the server occur here. 

	5.5. Staff will also moderate any conversations in any discord, affiliated or not, which clearly shows in their context that they are talking about Stoneworks (for example, Planning or executing wars and conflicts, specific players being annoying, groups that are prominent in game (even if they play other games together and you are referring to the people themselves), how people handled certain events, talking about people’s lore and characters, rules or moderation, etc). This should be clearly evident within the immediate context of the conversation via its language, content and references; and NOT based on player speculation of others’ intentions or meaning. This context that links the rule violation to Stoneworks should be either within a few minutes from each other, within only a few continuous screenshots of each other, linked by replies, or directly referencing Stoneworks.

	5.5.2 This also applies to Stoneworks-based content on Youtube, Twitch, Tiktok, etc. Content creators will not be moderated unless the potentially rule-breaking content itself is directly and clearly related to Stoneworks. This will only apply to very concrete and hardcore rulebreaks–not toxicity or harassment.

5.6. Players are asked to submit evidence screenshots that are NOT cropped, but are fullscreen pictures of the conversation for more context.

5.7. Statute of Limitations for evidence- All bans and infractions, except for cases regarding sexual harassment of minors (pedophilia), doxxing, or real-life threats, are fully nullified and unusable after 6 weeks.

5.8. If you are the owner of an affiliated discord or are the leader of the nation/religion/faction of that discord, you must help us keep the community clean of the worst rule breakers. If you keep people in your discord who are banned for one of the big 3 rule breaks (doxxing, irl threats, pedophilia), then you will be held responsible with a severe ban if this banned player does one of these again to a SW player. 
This rule specifically applies only to if the discord owners and leaders are aware of these big-rule breakers’ actions. In order for this rule to go into effect, there must be evidence that they knew of the banned players’ misconduct, or they must be warned and told to ban the rule breakers by staff.

5.8.1 This will be increased if the victimized SW player is in this discord or it happened in the discord. 

5.8.2 This will also be an immediate permaban and blacklist if there is clear evidence of you as the discord owner encouraged these rule breaks.











In-game rules

6. In-game player interaction rules
6.1. General PVP rules
6.1.1. You are always allowed to kill people, as long as such killing does not break Harassment/Toxicity rules.
6.1.2. Coordinating groups to take shifts in order to make the game unplayable for another player or group of players is not allowed.
6.1.3. Repeated killing without consent of the person being killed is not allowed.
6.1.4. Blocking access to a player’s AngelChest (tomb-like blocks that contain the inventory of dead players), or otherwise camping the chest and repeatedly killing them in order to prevent access to the AngelChest, is not allowed. 
6.1.5. Should someone log off right after their combat timer expires, and you were actively engaged with them in PvP before that, you are allowed to camp the area around which they logged off.
6.1.5.1 In case the situation described in 6.1.5 happens, any modifications to terrain that would be detrimental to the player as they relog are disallowed.
6.1.7. Any players assisting others with Bandit, Mercenary, Pirate, or Bounty Hunter tags in the killing of other players without one of the three tags enabled is not allowed. This also includes taking loot from a bandit’s kill as a non-bandit (called “loot goblining”). You must have one of the tags enabled to kill others with the tag. This does not apply in the Nether.
6.1.8. Players with the Bandit, Mercenary, Pirate, or Bounty Hunter tag can kill others with the same tag as much as they’d like. Angel Chest camping and Spawn Killing rules, and any other PvP-related rules still apply. They can also kill and loot regular players once a day and vice versa. 
6.1.10. A players’ chest shop can be unlocked on request (discord ticket), if the player didn’t interact with it within the last 30 days,
 if the player has been inactive for 30 days, if the chest shop is empty or if it's located in the wilderness. Unclaiming an area in order to have someone’s chest shop unlocked in order to get the items will result in a punishment.
6.2.0. Requesting staff assistance in game and killing them once they have arrived is disallowed.
6.2. Roleplaying rules
	6.2.1. You are not allowed to take inspiration from regimes, ideologies, groups, and governments which have committed real-life atrocities or are founded on doing so. This includes, but is not limited to, the Nazis, the American Confederacy, Fascist Italy, Islamic Terrorist Groups, South American cartels, the Sicilian Mafia, Imperial Japan, the Khmer Rouge, the Soviet Union, or other explicitly Communist or Fascist regimes.
	6.2.2. You are not allowed to roleplay systematic slavery.
	6.2.3. You are not allowed to roleplay slavery of individuals, unless there is informed Out-of-Character consent from the enslaved party/parties.
	6.2.4. You are not allowed to roleplay as real life regimes, governments, countries, peoples, or religions. Ideologies that are not banned are okay.
	6.2.5. Events posted in #r-player-events and #e-player-events have a 45-minute scams protection starting from the announced starting hour. Events starting with delays are not protected.
	6.2.6 You are not allowed to roleplay historically genocidal ideologies such as Fascism, Naziism, Maoism, Leninism/Stalinism, Falangism, White Supremacy, etc. Any symbols or names explicitly associated with these will be removed.
7. Plugin-related rules
7.1. Land rules
	These refer to the lands and nation claims created using the Lands plugin. These rules do not cover in-lore and in-RP countries and towns, which control an area beyond that which is claimed with the plugin (such an area is referred to as projected land). Staff will not look at in-lore and in-RP nations and countries for the application of land rules, pvp rules, or war rules.
7.1.1. In-real-life names or blatantly meme names may not be used as land or nation names. Admins reserve the right to rename lands deemed as breaking these rules. The main languages we will moderate real life names for are as follows: English, Mandarin, Hindi, Spanish, French, Arabic, German and Japanese.
7.1.2. A land will be transferred to the second highest ranking person in it after its main owner has not been active for more than 30 days. Active is considered having more than 90 minutes of playtime within 30 days. Claim ownership can be given to a player if they are the only active person of their own rank and above. In case people higher or of the same rank were to be active in said claim they can ask for consent from said players to get it transferred. 
7.1.3. A land claim may be deleted after none of its members have been active for the past 30 days. A regular land claim member will be considered inactive if they have less than 90 minutes of playtime within the last 30 days. A land claim can be deleted for inactivity if all members within the land reach inactivity, regardless of the land owners’ punishment length. 
7.1.4. Land claims are seen as the property of the single owner of the land claim. They have the right to do what they wish with their property, except the theft rules laid out in section.
7.1.5. Claim ownership can be given to a player if they are the only active person of their own rank and above. In case people higher or of the same rank were to be active in said claim they can ask for consent from said players to get it transferred. This only applies to players that do not own any other lands at that time.
7.1.6 Using large amounts of alts (roughly 3+) in order to increase the size of a land claim, particularly for political advantages and land-agitation, is disallowed.
7.1.7 Players are allowed to take over land claims using land's internal mechanics (such as betrayal by a land's admin by unclaiming or kicking players from it). However, doing this land coup with an alt is not allowed, nor is doing so to steal player property, or to avert war results. If the land coup is done and breaks these rules, it will be reversed.
7.2 Proxy Claiming
7.2 Using land claims and claimed chunks as a geopolitical tool in and of themselves is not allowed. Players are expected to only use claims to protect developed lands and their infrastructure. A claim that is over 2 weeks old will not be considered a proxy claim unless it is changed to fulfill one of the examples below. Proxy rules do apply unless the nation does not have in-game claims. Ownership of a land claim can be used as a political tool. If the changes to the claim are maintained and go unreported for 2 weeks, it will not be considered a proxy claim.
Once a nation leader reports a claim and has it deleted, this cannot be reversed at the nation leader’s request–make sure to communicate with your nation members about new claims. Things will be reversed if they are due to staff fault or miscommunication.

These usages of land claims are NOT allowed:

7.2.1 Proxy claims: creating a new land claim which lacks loot, development, or significance from which you declare war. This is done to avoid stakes and damages to your real town claims.

7.2.2 Invasive claims*: Nonconsensually creating a new land claim on another nation’s land for example to agitate them into war or diplomatic settlement. This does not include a nation’s internal rebellions, coups, secessions, land/ownership disagreements, or newbie player squatters, these exceptions only apply to claims older than 2 weeks, which were in the nation. New claims are not allowed to be created in disputed areas.
*Reports against this land claim should ONLY come from a nation’s top leader.

7.2.3 Siege claims: creating a new land claim nearby to the battle that is useful because it is not declared war upon. This is done for the purpose of making the attacking or defending position more difficult (surrounding the defending land claim, protecting bases for respawn beds and loot stores, fracturing one land claim into several to make a battle less impactful, etc).

7.2.4 Snaking or Blocking claims: making a claim to encircle another claim or expanding an existing claim to encircle another claim. This also includes making or expanding a claim that intentionally blocks other claims from expanding. This does not apply to simple claim borders, but unreasonably extending your claim to block off others or branches out to secure an overly large plot of land.

7.2.5 Insurgent claims: creating new claims to cement a rebellion. In cases of rebellions and turmoil, claims must stay the same or be altered only by uninvolved third parties.

These usages of land claims in geopolitics ARE allowed:
Taking over land claims using siege rules
Trading land claims, even if the owner does not consent
Using land claims as bases
Launching insurrections, coups, and secessions from land claims
Extending land claims to protect roads, walls, outposts, etc. that do not interfere with other claims 
Extend land claims beyond map or nation borders (so long as they don’t violate the kinds of proxy claims)
Take over land claims using land's internal mechanics (see rule Land Rule 7.1.7)
7.3. Scamming rules
Using any plugin on the server to scam other players is not allowed. This includes, but is not limited to:
7.3.1. Using the chest shop plugin to create shop chests that sell another item than what you say they sell.
	7.3.2. Using plugins to trade or sell items that have been renamed to look like another, more valuable, item.
	7.3.3. Using /rename, /lore and /setloreline to create items that look like they have enchantments that they don’t actually have. Creating “fake enchantments” is still allowed, as long as the enchantment has a different base colour than grey, or it doesn’t have the same name as any of the enchantments in vanilla Minecraft and you don’t claim that it is a real enchantment.
7.2.4. Scamming new or returning players. Forcing them to apply the bandit prefix, threatening them to join the nether, etc. 
7.4. Naming of an item/land.
	7.4.1 Renaming an item (via plugin or anvil) so that it breaks any of the Stoneworks rules will result in a punishment equivalent to having spoken/typed it.
	7.4.2 Utilising the Lore plugin to write words that break the Stoneworks rules will result in a punishment as explained in the rule above.
	7.4.3 Creating/Renaming a land so that it includes words that break the server rules will result in the corresponding punishment as stated above.
8. Griefing & Structure rules
Griefing is defined as the destruction or construction of disruptive structures on a large scale. Cases of griefing are dealt with depending on the size and effect of such disruptive structures. Killing ANY animals in a claimed area will count as griefing.
8.1. Griefing
	8.1.1. Large-scale griefing within a claim, or the wilderness within 3 chunks of a claim, is disallowed, unless it is done by the owner of the claim.
8.1.1.1. This counts for the removal of buildings, unless there is explicit permission from the claim owner to proceed with such removal, or otherwise the player removing is also the player who built the structure.
	8.1.2. Should staff deem the amount griefed to be extraordinarily large, it will be considered Major griefing and be punished more severely than regular griefing.
	8.1.3. Griefing overworld roads will be punished. This extends to ice roads, rails and superficial griefs.
	8.1.4. Removing any amount of redstone blocks from an upgraded road will be punished.
8.1.5. Using lava and water to create large cobblestone structures, also known as lavacasting, is not allowed. This is generally considered more grave than other forms of griefing, and is disallowed in all circumstances both within claims and in the wilderness.
8.1.6. Extreme resource collection can be counted as griefing, based on staff discretion.
8.1.7. Grief that is older than 30 days will not be moderated.
8.2. Factions Tactics
Players are not allowed to use faction tactics. Faction tactics include, but are not limited to, the creation of any structure which contains one or more of the following elements:
	8.2.1. Walls containing tall structures of gravity blocks (gravel, sand, etc.)
	8.2.2. Floating bases (even if it has a single bridge or entryway)
	8.2.3. Underground bases (unless given staff permission for special lore reasons)
	8.2.4. Using gravity blocks as part of or to cover walls (anvils, water, lava, waterlogged blocks, etc.) 
	8.2.5. Use of bunkers made out of unexplodable blocks (water, lava, waterlogged blocks, etc.) that cannot be broken during wars. Blocks that can be broken during wars (such as obsidian) are allowed.
8.2.6. Buttons, levers, signs, string and campfires are not to be used for traps.
This list may be amended in the future, should any other factions' base elements be discovered. In such cases, the base may still be considered a faction's base, even if the specific factions-style tactic in use isn’t on this list yet. Wars involving faction bases may lead to nullification, warnings, or temp-bans of their leaders.
8.2.7. Feet Grinders aren’t allowed; this is traps where a players feet are hit while they aren’t able to hit back and often where they’re trapped in and can’t escape. This means players can’t be trapped at the bottom of a fall trap and have their feet hit while they’re trapped. Fall traps must also be 2x2 blocks wide or larger. 
8.3. Inappropriate build rules
8.3.1. Symbols built with unfriendly intent are disallowed.
8.3.2. Players are not allowed to build swastikas under any circumstances.
8.4. Farm & Redstone machines rules
8.4.1. Farms that work completely independent of player action, and therefore can be fully AFK (Away From Keyboard, or without player interaction), are not allowed. 
8.4.2. Farms that use player input (e.g.: a button press used to move blocks in a cactus farm and break cactus) are allowed.
	8.4.3. Farms with a constant flow of water are forbidden. Farms where the flow is started by redstone input are allowed.
	8.4.4. Farms for multiblock crops such as cacti, sugarcane, bamboo, kelp, etc. are only allowed as long as they break all blocks of the crop. Any contraption or farm that only breaks the blocks above the base are not allowed. This includes redstone contraptions, or even simple strategies like placing a fence to automatically break a cactus whenever it grows.
	8.4.5. Farms based on auto-killing, or auto-spawning animals or mobs are disallowed. There must be a player interaction with the animals or mob eggs in order for it to be allowed.
	8.4.6. TNT Cannons are not allowed.
	8.4.7. Redstone Flying machines are allowed, as long as they are disabled or destroyed after use. You are not allowed to use them to drop TNT.
	8.4.8. Unending redstone cycles are disallowed.
	8.4.9. Lag machines are strictly prohibited.
9. Theft & Chest Locking rules
	9.1. Theft (stealing substantially valuable amounts of land balance money or items from a claim) is not allowed. This only applies to players trusted in claims.
	9.2 Theft specifically does not apply to- unclaimed areas, items accidentally put into an item frame, dropped items, or items consensually given and not returned. In these cases, players bear responsibility for maintaining their items and who has access to them.
	9.3. Petty theft and scamming is allowed, and must be handled by the community.
	9.4. You are not allowed to kick players from your claim for the sole purpose of removing their shop chests.
	9.5. Should staff deem the amount stolen to be extraordinarily large, it will be considered grand theft and be punished more severely than regular theft.
	9.6. You are not allowed to unclaim and reclaim a whole town in order to steal its contents. This does not include if the town is unclaimed for other reasons (lack of upkeep, inactivity, etc.)
9.7. Theft that is older than 30 days will not be moderated.

10. War rules

War rules are a special set of rules that apply to land wars (battles using the plugin). Though they once appeared on the rulebook, redundancy and having two documents made it so they were sometimes conflicting. All of the war rules were moved to the document which you can find below.

To read the War Rulebook, CLICK HERE

11. Hacks, Exploits, and Trapping
11.1. General hacking & exploits
	11.1.1. XRaying/AutoFishing in any form is disallowed. The ban will be further heightened if broken following terms:
11.1.1.1. It is found, after investigation, that a player has lied about not having XRayed/Autofished.
11.1.1.2. It is their second offence of XRaying and/or autofishing.
11.1.1.3. The player expresses intent to further break rules after their ban expires.
11.1.1.4. The player harasses or encourages harassment against staff members due to a failed appeal. 

	11.1.2. Hacked clients & features of hacked clients are disallowed. Any players found to be using hacked clients or their features (particularly fly hacks, kill aura, speed hacks, player finders, and Baritone) will be permanently banned.
	11.1.3. Mods used for performance improvement (Optifine, Sodium, etc.), Beautification (Shaders, Illuminations), or Quality of Life features (Litematica, Minimap, Replay Mod) are allowed. Exploiting these mods in order to XRay, access areas you are not supposed to access, or gain any other type of unfair advantage, is however not allowed. The Litematica Printer add-on and see-through lava are not allowed. Macros are not allowed. Minimap features like seeing invisible people, crouched people and furthermore seeing the Y-level of players are not allowed. Texture packs that show armor durability of other players are not allowed. 
	11.1.4. Block glitching (attempting to place or use blocks in protected areas and using them in order to access areas you should not be able to) is not allowed.
	11.1.5. Repeatedly opening doors or breaking blocks in order to hit someone through a wall is not allowed.
11.1.6. Despite the ban period stated, if a player has been found to xray in the server, trying to conceal it to actively xray for a period of about 2 months or longer, their ban will be made 6 months with no chance to appeal.
11.1.7 Duping items using exploits, or spreading information about a dupe will get you permanently banned and blacklisted. This requires a high standard of concrete evidence to fulfill.
11.1.8 Attempting to cover up a dupe, hiding duplicated items, or knowing about a dupe without reporting it will be met with a ban from a few weeks to a month. This is based on the intent to cover up or profit from a dupe exploit, truly unknowing players who acquire duped items are exempt. This requires a high standard of concrete evidence to fulfill.
11.2. Player Trapping Rules
	11.2.1. Trapping at the nether portal location, including making traps in the general area where the nether portal is located, is not allowed.
11.2.1.1. Trapping other players who willingly walk into a house/building is allowed. However, not allowing the said player to retrieve their items from their AngelChest will fall under AngelChest blocking rules, which is disallowed.
	11.2.2. Trapping at the land spawn location, including combat tagging a player to prevent them from teleporting or logging out is not allowed.
            11.2.3. You may not force an unwilling player through a nether portal by any means.
11.3. AFK kick evasion
	11.3.1. You are not allowed to use autoclickers, autojumpers, or any other form of modification/external program in order to prevent being kicked for being AFK.
	11.3.2. You are not allowed to build contraptions that help prevent you from being kicked by the AFK timer.
12. Skin & Profile Picture rules
Players using a skin or name considered inappropriate will be banned until they change it and appeal their ban. These extend to both in-game moderation and Discord.
12.1. Inappropriate Skin & Profile Picture rules
	12.1.1. Profile pictures portraying suggestive or explicit sexual content is not allowed.
	12.1.2. Skins/Profile pictures portraying the presence of sexual bodily fluids will be considered inappropriate, and therefore are not allowed.
	12.1.3. Skins/Profile pictures that portray genocidal or dictatorial regimes, bigoted ideologies, or certain groups of recent history will be considered inappropriate. This includes, but is not limited to, the Nazis, the American Confederacy, the KKK, Fascist Italy, Islamic Terrorist Groups, Imperial Japan, the Khmer Rouge, or the Soviet Union.
	12.1.4. Skins/Profile pictures portraying individuals responsible for or involved in real life atrocities (e.g.: the massacres and genocides of Native Americans or Australasian Aboriginals, British Indian famines and genocides, colonization of Africa, the Dutch East Indies, South America, the Yugoslavian Wars, etc.) are banned.

12.2. Inappropriate profile/account rules
12.2.1. Usernames and discord bios that refer to or glorify genocidal or dictatorial regimes, bigoted ideologies. This includes, but is not limited to, the Nazis, the American Confederacy, the KKK, Fascist Italy, Islamic Terrorist Groups, Imperial Japan, the Khmer Rouge, or the Soviet Union.
12.2.2. Usernames and discord bios referring to individuals responsible for or involved in real life atrocities (e.g.: the massacres and genocides of Native Americans or Australasian Aboriginals, British Indian famines and genocides, colonization of Africa, the Dutch East Indies, South America, the Yugoslavian Wars, etc.) are banned.
12.2.3. Usernames and discord bios containing words that are banned on the server (i.e. slurs) are banned.
12.2.4. Usernames and discord bios with clear & graphic sexual intent are banned.
















General rules

13. Toxicity rules
Toxicity is considered to be a set of behaviours done with the intent or effect, willing or not, of insulting, belittling, threatening, or otherwise creating a negative impact and experience for other people. Wishing to establish a welcoming and safe environment for all, staff will regulate toxicity within the server.
13.1. General toxicity rules
13.1.1 Excessively hostile language is not allowed. This includes, but is not limited to, telling someone to die or commit suicide, bringing up trauma in a demeaning way, encouraging or justifying bullying, and demeaning others through mental, physical, or developmental disorders.
13.1.1.1 Any variation of "kys”, including phrases such as "keep yourself safe", are not allowed on Stoneworks. Attempts to loophole rule 13.1.1 will be punished.
13.1.2 Repeated insulting, gloating, or mockery is not allowed. Repeated insults (regarding for example- people’s intelligence, toughness, or whether or not people like them), especially in a noticeably vitriolic, angry, and profane way is not allowed.
	13.1.3. The comparison of another individual or group of people to totalitarian, genocidal, or dictatorial regimes is strictly disallowed in Stoneworks.
	13.1.4. The use of personal beliefs in order to justify bigotry, or the breaking of any of the rules in this document, is not accepted as a valid excuse.
	13.1.5. Players are asked to cut contact with other players that are constantly insulting and entering in conflict with them. This can be done through discord blocks and the use of /ignore.
	13.1.6. Should a player be found continuing to target and harass another, they will be punished accordingly.
	13.1.7. Targeting a player or group of players through the means of wars, raiding, minor griefing or more than once in a 7 day period is harassment. This does not apply in the Nether. Griefing or destruction of Stoneworks Affiliated Discords is not allowed and will be considered harassment. 
	13.1.7.1 Raiding is any attack on land claim, be it against players trusted in it or not. The raiding area includes the extra three unclaimed chunks beyond the perimeters of the claim. The raid concludes after the raider/s exit the raiding area. (Entering the claim geared along raiders, but not fighting, will still be considered a raid).
13.1.8 Calling someone and condemning them as, but not limited to, fascist, nazi, racist (this one particularly requires lots of evidence of toxicity).

13.2. Bigotry rules 
13.2.1. No blatant/insensitive discrimination or comments based on race, gender, sexuality or religion.
13.2.2. The use of derogatory slurs in Stoneworks is disallowed as per staff discretion.
13.2.3. Impersonating minorities in Stoneworks is punishable.
13.2.4. Hard slurs (words whose main or only usage is derogatory against a group of people) are bannable. 
13.2.5. Soft slurs (words that are not necessarily derogatory, but can still be charged with offensive intent) will be punished depending on context. Soft slurs with clear derogatory intent will be punished as if they were hard slurs.
13.2.6. If you are saying derogatory things about SW players in relation to Stoneworks or because of events (Wars, Geopol etc) on Stoneworks you will get banned. 
13.3. Edginess & Political discussion rules
“Edgy” is understood as anything that glorifies or makes humour out of the holocaust, slavery, manmade famines, September 11th, political torture, pedophilia, the AIDS epidemic, domestic abuse, antisemitic conspiracy theories, descriptive gore, mental health issues, and other sensitive topics. It also extends to anything that mocks ethnicities, minorities, gender identity, etc.
13.3.1. Needlessly edgy statements, jokes, memes and language are not allowed on Stoneworks.
13.3.2. Staff reserves the right to shut down any discussions involving edgy topics.
13.3.3. Political discussion relating to in-real-life issues is discouraged on Stoneworks. Staff reserves the right to shut down political discussions, especially in cases where it could be considered that the discussion will devolve into toxicity or edginess. The same extends to discussions on in-real-life religions.
13.3.5. Denial, apologia, or whitewashing of relevant and widely recognized historical atrocities, genocides, manmade famines, and human rights violations will not be tolerated. 
13.3.5.1. Players are allowed to engage in honest and good faith discussion of these events, so long as it does not devolve into apologetical dismissal or glorification of their perpetrators, or otherwise validation.
13.3.5.2. This extends, but is not limited to, the Holocaust, the Holodomor, crimes against Native Americans, colonial atrocities, Armenian genocide, Rwandan genocide, atrocities perpetrated by Imperial Japan, Soviet purges & manmade famines, Bengali famine, enslavement & genocide of Black Americans, the Khmer Rouge, etc.

13.4 Targeted Bans & Ban Weaponization
13.4.1 War Banning- it is not allowed to withhold evidence in order to get a player banned at a convenient time surrounding wars. If this is clearly shown through a player reporting evidence that is 2+ weeks old and within a reasonable period of a scheduled lands war involving these two players, the reporting player may be banned.
13.4.2 Ban Folders- Keeping folders to store and categorize massive amounts of evidence in order to pull out when it is advantageous is not allowed. This is scummy metagaming. This is only bannable with evidence of a dedicated ban folder, not player testament alone. This does not apply if someone is building a case for recent toxicity against a specific player.
13.4.3 Ban Wars- It is not allowed to report someone as an in-game tool, aka starting a “ban war”. Any evidence that directly shows players intending to use bans as a weapon in a conflict, starting a ban war, use blackmail of evidence in order to influence in game events, etc., will result in this player being banned, and may lead to a reduction in the original reported ban based on staff discretion. This does not apply based on the timing or speculated motivation of a report alone, and must be based on clear and direct evidence.


14. Sexual interaction rules
Interactions or comments of sexual and erotic nature are not permitted in Stoneworks. This extends to all core Stoneworks servers, as well as related Discord servers. It’s important to note that sexual interaction rules regarding minors (pedophilia) do not abide by the statute of limitations! This is all for the safety of our community.
14.1. Sexual harassment
	14.1.1. DMing another player unsolicited messages of sexual or suggestive content will be punished.
	14.1.2. Sexual, erotic, and graphic comments in public chats will be punished.
	14.1.3. Inappropriate comments towards someone, especially but not limited to if they show discomfort, will be punished.
	14.1.4. Breaking the above will be punished harsher should the person be a minor.
	14.1.5. Sexual activity between inappropriately aged players will result in a ban.
	14.1.6. Inciting or fabricating sexual harassment allegations will be punished.
	14.1.7. Reaching out or seeking sexual interaction as a minor is punishable. Lying about your age in these circumstances is also punishable.
14.1.8. Paedophilia, grooming or sexual harassment of any kind will fall under Illicit behaviour will result in a ban.

Addendum: If you are a minor (under 18 or the age of consent in your country) and another player asks to meet you in person, please contact staff immediately.

Addendum: Any evidence of low level sexual harassment or solicitation will be taken much more seriously (with a lower threshold of evidence and no plausible deniability) if the violating player has a history of these activities in our community. This includes calling others mommy/daddy, referring to sex positions and preferences, fixating on relationships and sexual activity, becoming upset at changes from sexual topics, etc.
14.2. Sexual Roleplay & Interactions
	14.2.1. Erotic Roleplay is not allowed anywhere within the Stoneworks Community.
	14.2.2. Discords related to Stoneworks are not allowed to have channels dedicated to NSFW interactions.
	14.2.3. Writing and/or distributing sexual content in Stoneworks is punishable.
	14.2.4. Staff reserves the right to confiscate in-game books containing sexual material.
15. Staff-related rules
15.1. In-game reimbursement policy
	15.1.1. Items lost to server restarts are usually non-refundable.
	15.1.2. Items with no proof of existence will not be refunded.
	15.1.3. Items, money, or any legitimate assets lost due to direct admin intervention are refundable.
	15.1.4. Items lost due to other players breaking a rule (e.g., theft, griefing, etc.) are refundable.
15.2. Staff abuse rules
Staff members are not exempt from any of the rules.
	15.2.1. Staff are not to use their in game permissions for non-staff related activities that affect other players.
	15.2.2. Staff are not to use their permissions in Discord to obstruct communication of other community members without a valid reason.
	15.2.3. Staff are not to misuse the personal information or data obtained through official staff communication to gain leverage, an unfair advantage or blackmail material.
	15.2.4. Applying a punishment with a clear disregard to Statute of Limitations or other internal staff guidelines is considered staff abuse.
	15.2.5. Using staff permissions or accessibility to perform a staff action without sufficient evidence or for personal gain is considered staff abuse.
	15.2.6. Administrators are not allowed to engage in geopolitics, specifically:
15.2.6.1. They may not lead any nations or countries (independent entities whose projected land is represented on the world maps)
15.2.6.2 They may not engage in diplomacy (be it by signing documents, negotiating, etc).
15.2.6.3 They may not participate in the leadership of a war.
15.2.6.4 Administrators are, however, allowed to own & administrate cities that are under countries.
Important notes: Mistakes do not constitute staff abuse. Instead, the mistake has to be corrected. In extreme cases, the performance of the staff member has to be reviewed.
15.3. Impersonation of staff members
	15.3.1. Impersonating members of staff is not allowed. 
16. Discord Rules
16.1. Advertising 
Specific rules on the usage of nation/religion/market advertisement in the channels reserved for it on the Stoneworks Main Discord may be found on the messages that are pinned.

16.1.1. DM Advertising is never allowed. This refers to sending unsolicited links to join a Stoneworks nation, discord server, group, community, or movement, etc.
16.1.2. DM raiding is never allowed. This is defined as sending links for people to spam and troll a discord community with disallowed language, harassment, or content. The severity of the ban will reflect the offences which occurred in the raid.
16.1.3. Scam links/advertising anywhere in the Stoneworks Community will result in a permanent discord and ingame ban.
16.1.4. Advertising any non Stoneworks content in the main discord is not allowed.
16.1.5. Advertising Competitor Minecraft Servers anywhere in the community is strictly prohibited. (A Competitor could be a Civ, Factions, Geopol or Roleplay server that meets a similar function to Stoneworks; a server like PVP.legacy would be exempt from this). 
16.1.6. Advertising Nations, Religions, and/or Markets outside of the correct channels in the main discord is not allowed, and will result in a mute/restriction.
16.1.7. Only one (1) advert may be posted per nation, religion, or market in the respective channels reserved for them
16.1.8. Should you be advertising a province, constituent nation, state, etc., you are not allowed to include the main nation’s Discord if it is already being used in another advert.

16.2. Policy on Recording Voice Calls
By playing on our Minecraft server or engaging with our discord servers or affiliated discords run by private individuals, you agree to the potential condition of being recorded without your knowledge or explicit consent on voice and video calls by either server staff or individuals playing the game, as this is a common happening on discord and the game server. While recording someone without their consent is considered illegal in 11/50 states in the US, the acceptance and use of this video/voice evidence is an important part of our rule enforcement system to keep hate speech, harassment, and trolls off of our platforms. We expect people maintain each other's privacy, but will accept any rulebreaking evidence that is obtained in this way.

This does not apply to any cases of sexual harassment, bullying, blackmail, doxxing, real life extortion, or any other contents and misuse of these recordings that are already punishable by server rules.
17. Miscellaneous rules
17.1. Sharing personal information
17.1.1. The distribution of IP Grabbers or Viruses, as well as the act of doxxing, are strictly forbidden. This includes, but is not limited to, sharing someone else’s sensitive/private information such as names, addresses, phone numbers, region of residence, etc.  
17.1.2. Any reported jokes in any Stoneworks-related servers that involve the distribution of random, valid IP addresses (IPv4 format xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx), phone numbers, or addresses will be punished.
17.2. Illegal behaviour
17.2.1.	All laws regarding Minecraft as a medium apply on the server. Using the server, Discord or any property related to Stoneworks to exchange real life goods or illegal content is not allowed.
17.2.2. Encouraging illegal behaviour or the exchange of real life goods in Stoneworks or Stoneworks-related Discords is not allowed.
17.2.3. Committing clearly illegal acts within the community or server, especially those with social ramifications, is punishable.
17.3. Investigations, Evidence, Blackmail, and Weaponization
	17.3.1. Lying during staff investigations of rule breaking, even surrounding the context of the rules, may result in a ban, especially when the investigation surrounds a serious issue.
	17.3.2. Modifying evidence (screenshots, logs, etc.) to get a benefit from staff or evade punishment is not allowed.
17.3.3 Withholding evidence of a player's rule break that is currently punishable (within the 6 week statute of limitations, in affiliated servers, etc) in order to get in-game or social advantages or favours from that player is not allowed. Any evidence of this must require the blackmailer using the evidence as a way to get what they want, or threatening to leak or report for it. This DOES NOT APPLY to blackmailing using in-game political or social information, this form of in-game blackmail is allowed.
17.3.4 Lying about information or evidence in order to get somebody banned is strictly not allowed.
17.4. Discord and Minecraft ToS
17.4.1. Players found to be maliciously violating the Minecraft terms of service will be punished based on staff discretion. This includes but is not limited to: Sharing account information with others for malicious purposes such as ban evading, Selling/Trading accounts etc. Will be reported to the company.
17.4.2. Players found to be maliciously violating the Discord terms of service will be punished based on staff discretion. This includes but is not limited to: Sharing account information with others for malicious purposes such as ban evading, Selling/Trading accounts etc. Will be reported to the company.







Detailed Stoneworks Ban Times List
Stoneworks Ban Times work by stacking with each offence in the same category. The category is marked by the first number at the start of a rule. For example a rulebreak in toxicity goes up a tier with any other toxicity rulebreak. In the case someone breaks multiple rules across a range of rules the first offence ban times are simply added together. 
Stoneworks has a tiered ban time system the more offences in one category the higher ban time you will receive for another offence in that category 
If rulebreaks are not in the same category they are added together. 
Admin discretion may be used depending on the context of the situation to alter ban times however this should only be used in very unique circumstances. 



Offense
Severity
Notes
1.5. Spamming, 
1.9. Non-English in Global, 
6.1.3. Repeated Killing, 
6.1.4. Angel Chest Camping, 
6.1.6. Modifying logout spots after PvP, 
6.1.7. No assisting bandits when off tags.
6.2.0. Requesting staff assistance in game and killing them once they have arrived is disallowed.
6.2.4. Roleplaying real life entities,
7.1.5. Using (roughly) 3+ alts to increase land claim size,
7.2.6. Scamming new or returning players. Forcing them to apply the bandit prefix, threatening them to join the nether, etc. -> Wait for an admin to review the case first.
8.1.1, Griefing within a claim or 3 chunks of a claim, 
8.1.3. Griefing overworld roads, 
8.1.4. Taking redstone from any road, 
8.2.1. Walls containing gravity blocks, 
8.2.2. Floating bases, 
8.2.3. Underground bases without staff permission, 
8.2.4. Using gravity blocks as part of or to cover up walls, 
8.2.5. Use of bunkers made of unexplodable blocks not able to be broken during wars, 
8.2.6. Using buttons, levers or signs in traps, 
8.2.7. Feet grinders,
8.3.1. Symbols built with unfriendly intent, 
8.4.1. Completely independent farms, 
8.4.3. Farms with a constant flow of water,
8.4.5. Autokilling animal farms, 
8.4.6. TNT Cannons, 
8.4.7. Redstone flying machines that aren’t disabled after use, 
9.1 Theft, 
11.1.4. Exploiting using things like bugs and mods,
11.1.4. Block Glitching,
11.1.5. Repeatedly opening doors/breaking blocks to hit someone through wall,
11.2.1. Nether portal trapping,
11.2.1.1. Not allowing willingly trapped players to retrieve angel chests,
11.2.2. Trapping at land spawn locations,
11.2.3. Forcing unwilling players through nether portals by any means,
11.3. AFK kick evasion, 
13.1.2. General toxicity,
13.1.8. Calling someone and condemning them as, but not limited to, racist, fascist and a nazi.
16.1.6. Advertising nations, religions, and/or markets outside of correct channels
16.1.7. One advert per nation, religion or market in their respective channels,
16.1.8. Advertising a province, constituent nation, state, etc., and including the main nation’s Discord if it is already being used in another advert.


 Minor

If determined to be done moderately, do the punishment in the next severity.
For chat related offenses, do the following order of punishments:
 [15m mute] [30m mute] [1h mute] [2h mute] (keep doubling)

For others, do this order: [Warn] [3d ban] [1w ban] [2w ban] [1mo ban] [Permanent ban]





6.1.2. Coordinating groups to make the game unplayable,
6.2.1. Taking inspiration from in IRL ideologies, regimes, and governments which have committed atrocities,
6.2.2. Roleplaying systematic slavery,
6.2.3. Roleplaying slavery of individuals without consent,
6.2.5. Raiding protected events,
7.2. proxy claiming
7.3.1. Creating chest shops that sell non-listed items,
7.3.2. Renaming items to look like other items,
7.3.3. Fake enchantments,
7.3.4. Falsely claiming to own land and selling it to others,
8.1.2. Excessive griefing,
8.1.6. Extreme resource collecting,
8.4.8. Unending redstone cycles,
9.3. Kicking players from claims just to remove shop chests,
9.4. Excessive theft (Grand Theft)
10.2. Joining/rejoining the server for wars,
12.1.1. Inappropriate skins and profile pictures, 
13.1.1. Excessively hostile language,
13.1.3. Comparing any people to totalitarian, genocidal or dictatorial regimes,
13.1.4. Using personal beliefs to justify bigotry or any rule breaking,
13.1.7. Targeting players through wars, raids, or griefing more than once a week,
13.2.5. Soft Slurs,
13.3. Edginess and political discussion,
13.3.1. Needlessly edgy statements, jokes, memes or language,
14.2. Sexual roleplay and interactions,
15.2.1. Using staff permission for non-staff activities that affect other players,
15.2.2. Using staff permissions in Discord to obstruct communication of community members without valid reasoning,
15.2.5. Using staff permissions or accessibility to perform staff actions without sufficient evidence or for personal gain.
15.3. Impersonation of Staff,
16.1.1 DM Advertising,
17.1. Sharing personal information,
 Moderate

If determined to be done severely, do the punishment in the next severity.
Do the following order: [1w ban] [2w ban] [1mo ban] [2mo ban] [Permanent ban]

In the case of 
6.2.5, 
8.4,
12.1.1,
13.3, 
13.3.1, 
14.2, 15.x and 16.1.1, warn before usual punishments.

For all 7.2. Offenses in the Moderate severity, there is a warning before usual punishments.

In the case of 13.2.5, warn before usual punishments. If using soft n word, no warning should be issued, go straight to 1 week.
1.4.2. Working for banned players.
1.7. Advertising other servers in Stoneworks related servers.
8.1.5. Lava Casting.
11.1.1. X-ray and Autofishing.
12.2.1. Glorying bigoted, dictatorial, or genocidal regimes/ideologies in bio/username
13.2.2. Using derogatory slurs.
13.2.3. Impersonating minorities.
13.2.6. Saying derogatory things about SW players in relation to Stoneworks or because of events (Wars, Geopol etc) on Stoneworks.
13.3.5. Denial, apologia, or whitewashing relevant and widely recognized atrocities, genocides, manmade famines, or human rights violations,
13.4. Targeted Bans & Ban Weaponization. 
16.1.4. Advertising non Stoneworks content in main Discord.
17.3. Lying during investigation.
17.4.1. Withholding evidence within the 6 weeks statute of limitations in order to blackmail an individual.
 Severe

If determined to be done grievously, do the punishment in the next severity.
Do the following order: [2w ban] [1mo ban] [2mo ban] [Permanent ban]
X-ray & Autofishing bans are 1 month then permanent.

For 17.3, instead of perm banning add 2 months to the offenses usual punishment

For 12.2.1, perm ban till username is changed


For 1.4.2, ban for 1 month then double.
11.1.1.2. Ban Evasion,
1.6. DM Advertising unrelated servers,
8.3.2. Building swastikas,
8.4.9. Lag Machines,
11.1.1.4. Encouraging harassment or harassing staff members after failed appeal,
11.1.1.1. Lying about X-Ray / Autofishing,
11.1.1.3. Player expresses intent to break more rules after ban expires,
11.1.2. Hacked Clients,
11.1.1.5. Second offense of Xraying or Autofishing,
11.1.2. Hacks and Modifications like fly, speed, player, and other hacks,
12.1.2. Skins/Profile Pictures portraying sexual bodily fluids,
12.1.3. Skins/Profile Pictures portraying bigoted ideologies, dictatorial or genocidal regimes, and other inappropriate groups.
12.1.4. Skins/Profile Pictures portraying those responsible for real life atrocities,
12.2.2. Usernames relating to those responsible for real life atrocities,
12.2.3. Usernames and discord bios containing words banned on the server,
12.2.4. Usernames and discord bios with clear & graphic sexual intent,
13.1.6.  Continuing to target or harass a person after a block,
13.2.1. Blatant/insensitive discrimination based on race, gender, sexuality or religion,
13.2.4. Hard slurs,
14.1. Sexual harassment,
15.2.3. Staff misuse of personal info, or data through official staff communication to gain leverage, unfair advantages, or blackmail material.
16.1.2. DM Raiding,
16.1.3. Scam links,
16.1.5. Advertising competitor minecraft servers in main discord, 
17.2. Illegal behavior,
17.4.  Discord and Minecraft ToS
 Grievous
Do the following: [Permanent ban]

For 11.1.1.1, instead of perm banning add 2 months to the offenses usual punishment

In the case of

13.2.1, discrimination
13.2.4, hard slurs.

should be punished with 6 months instead of permanent, and doubled for every next offense.



Server Institutions & Systems

Rings of Power System
Rings of Power are digital tokens that players can usr to enact special powers. They come in the form of a discord role. They are obtained by independently completing roleplay and world building events and storylines, and are handed out by the server owners. The Rings of Power themselves have two tiers, the more powerful and rarer Gold Rings of Power, and the more common Silver Rings of Power
How to Obtain Rings of Power
Players get these by organizing and executing roleplay events and storylines in-game without significant admin help. Players must show these events (via recordings) to the owners, who are the only ones who can award the Rings. Players will NOT get these just by writing lore or by hosting an adhoc event that clearly wishes to gain benefits without the effort or serious roleplay. Golden Rings should be given out at a rate of 1-2 per month, and Silver Rings should be given out at a rate of 5-6 per month. 

For a good example of a Golden Ring of Power worthy storyline, see the following video section–The Anglunian Neihernspried Crisis (dozens of players, character-based, long term, lore based, little to no admin intervention).

For Silver Rings of Power, see the following video–Archaeology Roleplay Event (about a dozen players, character-based, draws on past lore, though ignore all the admin intervention!!!)

Only one Ring may be given out per player event, unless it’s a massive RP war or a very large server-wide event, then 2 Rings may be handed out. Players should take clear ownership and credit of their events from the outset. 

These player events and storylines must generally:
Be relatively serious, purposeful, and RP toned
Be noticeably effortful, passionate, social, and well prepared. There should be large builds or areas constructed for this event.
Be based on lore and adhere to the unique culture of a nation, religion, or group
Be well-intentioned  for the sake of Roleplay and creative expression in game
Have a significant number of people (rough minimum of 10 for silver rings, 20 for golden)
Be well-received by the players in attendance
Not be significantly assisted by staff in organization or execution (spawning a few mobs or setting a warp are okay levels of intervention)
(for Golden rings) not be a simple party, pvp tournament, or sports contest.

Using of Rings of Power
Players who have a Gold Ring of Power (as designated by the discord role) can open a ticket to take advantage of one of the listed abilities. In your ticket, please list your username, that you are using a ring of power, which ability you would like to use, and a summary of any relevant info for the ability you’ve chosen. 
Abilities of Golden Rings of Power
Planning of a moderate-sized RP event with admin help (biome change roughly the size of an Eldham biome, religious event for a non-mechanical artifact, natural disaster event, etc)
Obtaining the bandit tag for yourself and a friend for up to two months
Obtaining a two-month war shield for all the contiguous land claims in your nation (see the War Rulebook for logistics and specifics on this)
Obtaining a kit with tons and tons of war materials in it (not brews, since these frequently change–armor with prot 4, unb 3. Swords with sharp 5, unb 3. Bows with Power 5, unb 3. Pick with eff 5, unb 3)

Abilities of Silver Rings of Power
Planning a small-sized RP event with admin help (a religious sacrifice for a unique alter alteration or supernatural event, a small pve event, archaeological discovery, or bolstering a wedding or pvp tournament with warps and advertisement)
Guaranteed obtaining the bandit tag for a month
One-month war shield for your nation (with same conditions as the Golden Ring)
Content Creator Program
The owners will will directly pay people who have original videos or shorts that go viral. Players do not need to be accepted into the program in order to receive money from content. There are two tiers that will get paid:

Videos:
- Must have at least 10k views to activate
- Must be over 4 minutes long
- Must say the IP visually (and if there's voice over, say it audably)
- Must not be toxic, bigoted, or promote the server in a bad light.
- 4$ per view. 2$ if you fail one of the conditions but it's a good vid.
- You can get a bonus if it tells a good story or is exciting (up to 500k extra dollars, but rare)
- Will be paid out by a one-month window of choice
- You get the content creator role in game if your vid gets over 100k views
Shorts/Tiktoks:
- Must have at least 25k views to activate
- Must have the IP visually
- Must not be toxic, bigoted, or promote the server in a bad light.
- 1.5$ per view. 2$ if you say the IP aloud
- Will be paid out by a one-month window of choice
- You get the content creator role in game if your short gets over 250k views



Staff Ethics & Procedure


Fairness & Rule Application
Staff must apply rules equally based on how they are written and the spirit of their purpose.
Staff must not handle tickets or situations that they are directly involved in. They are expected to report evidence and let another staff member handle it.
If there is confusion in interpretation of the rules, staff should consult other staff members, with higher staff members’ interpretation of the rules weighing more.
Staff must operate off of substantial evidence when punishing a player or interfering with in game politics or mechanics.
Staff should hear both sides of an argument during bans and appeals. When not maintaining anonymity of the reporting player, they must add accused players when more information is necessary for this (proxy claim tickets, toxicity bans, war tickets, etc.)
Staff must give player reports and accusations serious and due consideration.
Staff must not give players items or advantages in game, except in a limited Roleplay context.

Staff Standards
Staff must maintain anonymity of players who request it in a ticket.
Staff must not leak tickets or staff-only chats unless given permission by those involved.
Staff must maintain a higher level of respectability, adherence to the rules, and calm demeanor than is expected of players. 
Staff must be reasonably active in game and in discord moderation or policy discussions in order to keep their position.

Checks & Balances on Staff
Owners can override rules and punishments if a case is reasonably seen to have staff bias, unfair application of rules, exceptional circumstances, procedural errors, etc.
Owners are expected to carry out periodic waves of mass unbans that may be punitive, unfair, biased; or reasonably unban people who may be beneficial to the server’s gameplay and longevity.

Staff Demotion or Retirement
Staff can be demoted due to rule infractions, misconduct, or violation of our standards and ethics both inside and outside our server.
Staff who were active and impactful admins for a considerable amount of time, and left the team on good terms, will be given the in-game rank of netherite.

